## Part 2

The only difference of Part 2 is that duration of each step is not fixed and
should also be optimized. Since we solved Part 1 with DDP, one natural idea is
to adapt the algorithm to incorporate step duration as a control input in DDP.
This however proved to be difficult.

Initially we attempted to model an entire footstep (instead of only one "tick"
as in Part 1) as a DDP step. State is the COM position and velocity $(x_0,
\dot{x}_0, y_0, \dot{y}_0)$ at the beginning of a footstep. Control input is
COP offset $u_i$ plus time of this step $\Delta t_j$. The problem with this
particular formulation is that the single-step dynamics equation $F(i, x_i,
u_i)$ becomes a high-order polynomial of $u$ (i.e. highly nonlinear), which
makes DDP an unsuitable approach.

We then attempted to return to a "tick-by-tick" formulation. Each footstep
duration is uniformly divided into $n$ sub-durations, each corresponding to a
DDP timestep. The timing information is encoded in the state vector, which is
set using a special control input $u$ before the first step in the group. This
formulation has single-step cost cubic of $x$ and $u$, and dynamic function
quadratic of $x$ and $u$. We initialize $u$ by running Part 1 DDP with the
given footstep timing and interpolating the result. This gives the algorithm a
valid solution to improve upon. However, due to singular hessian of $Q$, the
algorithm fails to converge (most likely to be caused by the duration-setting
DDP step). 

In the end we have to resort to having a meta-optimizer on footstep durations,
then using Part 1 (now with the durations effectively fixed) to get the dynamic
part of the score function. Footstep-related costs such as swing-stride penalty
are added after each run of Part 1. CMAES proved to be reasonably fast for this
although we had to decrease the iteration count of each run of Part 1.
